# Intro to deep learning

This is the course web-page for Introduction to Deep Learning and NLP at University of
Bonn in spring 2023.

Last year has shown multiple breakthroughs in deep learning, bringing large language
models to the mainstream. OpenAI's ChatGPT, Microsoft's new Bing Search and GitHub
Copilot, and Deep Mind's AlphaCode are the most prominent. While they still have many
flaws, they show a potential to transform many sectors of the economy, replace some
workers and make other vastly more productive.

NLP also has an immense potential to change research in economics. Most economists use
small and expensive structured datasets. NLP offers a way to work with novel data sources
that often can be scraped for free from the web. Examples are classifying speeches along
the political spectrum, classifying tweets to measure opinions, extracting concepts
mentioned in free-form survey replies, or translating questionnaires or datasets into
different languages.

This class is an introduction to deep learning and NLP for economists. Starting from
zero, the first half of the course focuses on learning the practical skills needed to
incorporate NLP into empirical workflows. We will use Huggingface's transformers library
and only work with pre-trained models for this. The second half of the class zooms in
and focuses on understanding what language models are, how they differ, and how they are
trained. We will write some purely didactical code in numpy and implement a few simple
models in PyTorch. The main focus of the second half is to build enough understanding to
work effectively with pre-trained models. It is beyond our scope and computational
resources to actually train large models.

[//]: <> (comment)

Below you find some general materials and the materials for each lecture. Please
make sure to thouroughly read the logistics and installation page before you approach
us with any questions.

```{toctree}
---
maxdepth: 1
---
logistics
installation
lecture_1
lecture_2
lecture_3
lecture_4
lecture_5
lecture_6
lecture_7
lecture_8
lecture_9
```
